inductive.js
============

This is an experimental library which uses unit tests
to autogenerate working code.

Example:

    specify('myFunc',
      given(2, shouldReturn(4)),
      given(3, shouldReturn(9)),
      use('*'));

    /* This code is autogenerated:
    function myFunc(arg0) {
      return (arg0 * arg0)
    }
    */

As the unit tests change, the output code automatically changes:

    specify('myFunc',
      given(2, shouldReturn(8)),  // 4 changed to 8
      given(3, shouldReturn(27)), // 9 changed to 27
      use('*'))

    /* This code is autogenerated:
    function myFunc(arg0) {
      return (arg0 * (arg0 * arg0))
    }
    */

It works by doing a breadth-first,
brute force search
over strongly typed abstract syntax trees
and returns the first one that satisfies the unit tests.

The `use` function gives inductive.js building blocks to choose from
as it searches for a solution.
In this case we've given it the multiplication operator.
It combines these building blocks
with the function's arguments
to create candidate test programs.

Ideally, we wouldn't need a `use` function,
but the search space of all possible JavaScript programs
is too large to be practical.

Still, even with this limitation,
inductive.js has benefits over conventional unit tests:

* We only need to write and maintain one version of the code,
instead of having to simultaneously update code and tests
whenever we make a change.

* Inductively generated code is generally more reliable
because we have a programmatic guarantee
that we haven't included code that isn't related to a test.

Inductive.js can handle non-toy problems as well.
For example, I/O operations like AJAX are handled using mocks.
Additionally, specifications are composable,
so inductive.js can generate programs of any size or complexity.

Value
=====

The main value of inductive.js is software verification.
The solver uses a strong type system that all programs runs through
as they are generated.

Additionally, inductive.js code is immutable by default,
which decreases the likelihood of software errors.

Finally, all code is tied programmatically to unit tests.
This provides a much stronger guarantee than conventionally-tested code.

Quick Start
===========

First:

    npm install inductive.js

Then create a file called helloworld.i.js:

    // Load the DSL:
    require('inductive.js').globals()

    // Specify our program:
    var helloWorld = specify('helloWorld',
      givenNoArgs(
        shouldReturn(undefined),
        mock('console.log',
          verify('hello world'))),
      use(
        'console.log',
        value('hello world')))

    run(helloWorld)

    // Generate the .js file:
    saveAll()

Run the spec:

    node helloworld.i.js

This autogenerates the code:

    function helloWorld() {
      return console.log('hello world');
    }

    helloWorld();

We can now run the auto-generated program:

    node helloworld.js

Docs
====

Docs are forthcoming.
In the meantime, the `testSolves.i.js` file contains many examples.
The `buildingBlocks.js` file contains the default list of building blocks
that you can include with the `use` command.

License
=======

MIT
